Update MNCNH ANC module document (#1695)
ihmeuw/vivarium_research: docs/source/models/concept_models/vivarium_mncnh_portfolio/antenatal_care_module/module_document.rst

++++++++++++

> This module determines whether or not a simulant attends an antenatal care visit according to their ANC visit 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module determines a simulant's antenatal care attendance exposure according to their ANC visit 
```
Proposing this change to go along with @alibow's [proposed changes for the next line](https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research/pull/1695/files#r2169501236), since the module determines not just *whether* the simulant attends ANC, but *when*, and we're collectively calling this "ANC attendance exposure," I think.

I think the original wording was unclear because it looked like it was saying we use the probability (or propensity) *and* timing to determine whether a simulant attends ANC, but I think the intention was to say that we use the propensity to determine ANC attendance and timing.

> probability value and the timing of their ANC visit (i.e., during first trimester or later pregnancy). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
propensity value and the distribution of ANC attendance exposure categories specific to their location and pregnancy term length. ANC attendance exposure categories include whether a simulant attends an ANC visit during their first trimester and/or later during their pregnancy. 
```
I think this one actually should stay as "propensity"! We use both the propensity and probabilities to determine which exposure to assign to an individual simulant. Let me know if this is unclear and would be helpful to talk through.

2.0 Module Input and Output Data
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

2.1 Module Inputs
-----------------

.. list-table:: Module required inputs
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Input
    - Source module
    - Application
    - Note
  * - Pregnancy term length
    - :ref:`Pregnancy I module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_pregnancy_module>`
    - Determines which set of probabilities to use for the ANC exposure categories. 
    - Full term pregnancies can be assigned any of the values A, B, C, or D, 
      whereas we assume partial term pregnancies can only attend ANC in the first trimester, so only categories B and D have nonzero probability. 
      See exposure probability tables below.
  * - ANC propensity
    - :ref:`Initial attributes module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_initial_attributes_module>`

>     - A random value uniformly distributed in [0, 1], interpreted as the simulant's intrinsic propensity for attending ANC visits, with higher 
>       propensity values corresponding to seeking more ANC care. Use the ANC propensity together with the ANC attendance exposure probabilities below 
>       to select one of the ANC exposure categories A, B, C, or D, as described in the :ref:`special ordering of the categories <facility_choice_special_ordering_of_categories_section>` 
>       section of the facility choice model document. When sampling, the categories should be ordered D < C < B < A (highest risk to lowest risk in terms of ultrasound timing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use the ANC propensity together with the ANC attendance exposure probabilities below 
      to select one of the ANC exposure categories A, B, C, or D, as described in the :ref:`special ordering of the categories <facility_choice_special_ordering_of_categories_section>` 
      section of the facility choice model document. When sampling, the categories should be ordered D < C < B < A (highest risk to lowest risk in terms of ultrasound timing), so that higher 
      propensity values correspond to seeking more ANC care.
```
I think we can remove the definition of the propensity since it applies generally to any of our propensities (though I don't think we've actually documented that anywhere...). Here's a proposed edit.

2.0 Module Input and Output Data
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

2.1 Module Inputs
-----------------

.. list-table:: Module required inputs
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Input
    - Source 
    - Definition
    - Application
    - Note
  * - Pregnancy term duration 
    - :ref:`Pregnancy I <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_pregnancy_module>`
    -
    - Partial term pregnancies by default should be assigned the probability value of ANCfirst.

>     - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 
  * - ANC propensity
    - :ref:`Initial attributes module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_initial_attributes_module>`
    - A random value uniformly distributed in [0, 1], interpreted as the simulant's intrinsic propensity for attending ANC visits, with higher propensity values corresponding to seeking more ANC care.
    - Use the ANC propensity together with the ANC attendance exposure probabilities below to select one of the ANC exposure categories A, B, C, or D, as described in the :ref:`special ordering of the categories <facility_choice_special_ordering_of_categories_section>` section of the facility choice model document. When sampling, the categories should be ordered D < C < B < A (highest risk to lowest risk in terms of ultrasound timing).
    - ANC propensity is correlated with LBWSG category propensity and IFD propensity as described in the the :ref:`correlated propensities <facility_choice_correlated_propensities_section>` section of the facility choice model document. Currently we assume that there is no correlation of ANC with other factors.
```
Here's a suggestion for adding ANC propensity to the inputs table. Please check to make sure everything renders correctly, since I'm editing on GitHub and can't test it!

@alibow does this look good to you?

Reviewer: @pletale Oh, I just realized some of those references require https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research/pull/1692 to be merged -- it looks like it has two approvals, so I can go ahead and merge that to main, and then you can update your branch before adding them here.

Reviewer 2: All looks good to me!

2.0 Module Input and Output Data
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

2.1 Module Inputs
-----------------

.. list-table:: Module required inputs
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Input
    - Source 
    - Definition
    - Application

>     - Note

Reviewer: If none of the rows have a Note, then we could just delete the column to make the table look better.

Reviewer: Oh, but I added a note in the ANC propensity row, so never mind.

  * - Pregnancy term duration 
    - :ref:`Pregnancy I <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_pregnancy_module>`

>     -

Reviewer 2: I am a little worried about starting to have multiple versions of truth by listing out so much detail upon each instance. I think listing this and a link to the page where it is defined is enough in case we ever change/add detail to the values for pregnancy term length

>     -

Reviewer: Good point. Maybe this is an argument for putting the inputs from other modules in their own table like in the other module pages, since we don't need definitions for those, and then have a separate table for the probabilities we're using to sample the ANC exposure, which do need definitions. I think that would more closely match the structure of the other modules.

>     -

Reviewer: Although, somewhere on this page, we do need to make it clear that the values we're using to select the correct exposure probability table, i.e., "full term pregnancies" vs. "partial term pregnancies," are in fact the possible values of the "pregnancy term length" variable. Perhaps my [suggestion for editing the "Application" column](https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research/pull/1695#discussion_r2170164409) covers this.

>     - Partial term pregnancies by default should be assigned the probability value of ANCfirst.

Reviewer: This sounds confusing to me -- we're not really "assigning a probability value" to the pregnancies or the simulants.

Maybe it would be better to say something like, "Determines which set of probabilities to use for the ANC exposure categories. Full term pregnancies can be assigned any of the values A, B, C, or D, whereas we assume partial term pregnancies can only attend ANC in the first trimester, so only categories B and D have nonzero probability. See exposure probability tables below."

But maybe it doesn't need to be so wordy, or maybe some of this can go in the Note column instead of the Application column.

  * - ANCfirst
    - ANCfirst is processed by the Health Systems team at IHME and available here:
      ``J:\Project\simulation_science\mnch_grant\MNCNH portfolio\anc1_first3months_st-gpr_results_aggregates_scaled2025-05-27.csv``
    - Proportion of pregnant people attending ANC in the first trimester
    - Used to calculate probability values for ANC coverage
    - 
  * - ANC1
    - GBD covariate ID 7: :code:`get_covariate_estimates(location_id=location_id, release_id=16, year_id=2023, covariate_id=7)` 
    - Proportion of pregnant people receiving any antenatal care from a skilled provider
    - Used to calculate probability values for ANC coverage
    - 
  * - ANC4
    - GBD covariate ID 8: :code:`get_covariate_estimates(location_id=location_id, release_id=16, year_id=2023, covariate_id=8)` 
    - Proportion of pregnant people receiving 4 or more antenatal care visits including 1 or more from a skilled provider
    - Used to calculate probability values for ANC coverage
    - 

2.2 Module Description 
----------------------

> ANC attendance **for full term pregnancies** will be modeled as a single variable with 4 possible exposure options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ANC attendance will be modeled as a single variable with 4 possible exposure options:
```
The definition of the variable and the four categories doesn't depend on the pregnancy term length. Rather, "full term pregnancies" should be specified below for the appropriate probability table (I'll add a comment there, too).

    - C
    - D

> The below table describes what probability values to use for each exposure option outlined above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below table describes what probability values to use for each exposure option outlined above, **for full term pregnancies**.
```
Moving the restriction to full term pregnancies from above, as noted in [my other comment](https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research/pull/1695/files#r2170182924).

    - Prevalence of first trimester visit ONLY (and no late pregnancy visit) only occurs if ANCfirst > ANC4
  * - C
    - Attends ANC during later pregnancy but NOT first trimester
    - ``ANC1 - ANCfirst``
    - 
  * - D
    - Does not attend ANC at all during pregnancy
    - ``1 - ANC1``  
    - 

.. note:: 

>     As of `pull request #1690 <https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research/pull/1690>`_ we updated how we assign our ANC probabilities to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    As of `pull request #1690 <https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research/pull/1690>`_ we updated how we assign our ANC exposures to 
```

    - 

2.3 Module Outputs
------------------

As mentioned earlier, ANC attendance impacts hemoglobin exposure and facility choice in our model, and in order for the 
outputs of this component to be compatible with the data needs of these two downstream components, we will need two different
outputs, one being dichotomous for the hemoglobin component and the other being polychotomous for the facility choice component.  

> .. list-table:: Module outputs for hemoglobin component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. list-table:: Module outputs
```
Since we're now including all module outputs

  :header-rows: 1
  :widths: 10 15 15

  * - Output
    - Value
    - Note
  * - Attends ANC in first trimester?
    - 
      - *True*  for groups A and B 
      - *False* for groups C and D
    - This output will be used as an input for the :ref:`hemoglobin module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_hemoglobin_module>`.
      This variable is dichotomous for each pregnancy.
  * - Attends ANC in later pregnancy?
    - 
      - *True*  for groups A and C 
      - *False* for groups B and D
    - This output will be used as an input for the :ref:`hemoglobin module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_hemoglobin_module>`.
      This variable is dichotomous for each pregnancy.
  * - ANC attendance 
    - 
      1. No ANC
      2. ANC in later pregnancy only
      3. ANC in 1st trimester only
      4. ANC in 1st trimester and later pregnancy
    - This output will be used as an input for the :ref:`facility choice module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_facility_choice_module>`.
      The variable is polytomous for each pregnancy with the above 4 categories (ordered from worst to best). These are the same four categories listed above as A-D, 

>       but in reverse order, i.e., 1 = D, 2 = C, 3 = B, 4 = A. These need to be ordered D < C < B < A when sampling the variable using the correlated propensity for 

Reviewer: I like the new table format!

I have a few comments:

- "the above 4 categories" no longer quite applies since they're listed in the table instead of "above"
- I think it's worth specifying exactly what we want the categories to be called. My proposal would be (to avoid the redundancy of saying "ANC" in all the category names):

1. `none` for group D
2. `later_pregnancy_only` for group C
3. `first_trimester_only` for group B
4. `first_trimester_and_later_pregnancy` for group A

- I think we can simplify the explanation in the Note column, for example, by explicitly specifying which category corresponds to which letter in the value column, like I've done above. Perhaps I'll just try making a code suggestion...

>       1. No ANC
>       2. ANC in later pregnancy only
>       3. ANC in 1st trimester only
>       4. ANC in 1st trimester and later pregnancy
>     - This output will be used as an input for the :ref:`facility choice module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_facility_choice_module>`.
>       The variable is polytomous for each pregnancy with the above 4 categories (ordered from worst to best). These are the same four categories listed above as A-D, 
>       but in reverse order, i.e., 1 = D, 2 = C, 3 = B, 4 = A. These need to be ordered D < C < B < A when sampling the variable using the correlated propensity for 
>       the facility choice model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. :code:`none` for group D
      2. :code:`later_pregnancy_only` for group C
      3. :code:`first_trimester_only` for group B
      4. :code:`first_trimester_and_later_pregnancy` for group A
    - This output will be used as an input for the :ref:`AI Ultrasound module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_ai_ultrasound_module>`.
      The categories of this polytomous variable are listed from highest risk (1) to lowest risk (4) in terms of ultrasound timing, in accordance with the :ref:`special ordering of the categories section <facility_choice_special_ordering_of_categories_section>` of the delivery facility choice model document:
      The categories need to be ordered D < C < B < A when sampling the ANC attendance variable using the correlated ANC propensity in order to induce the correct correlations for the facility choice model.
```
Here's a shot at rewording this for clarity given the updates. I don't know if the wording is that great, so feel free to edit. Note that the ANC attendance variable isn't directly used by the facility choice module, but by the AI ultrasound module, which then feeds its output into facility choice.

    - Value
    - Note
  * - Attends ANC in first trimester?
    - 
      - *True*  for groups A and B 
      - *False* for groups C and D
    - 
  * - Attends ANC in later pregnancy?
    - 
      - *True*  for groups A and C 
      - *False* for groups B and D
    - 

ANC attendance inputs to the :ref:`facility choice module <2024_vivarium_mncnh_portfolio_facility_choice_module>`
are polytomous for each pregnancy with the following 4 categories (ordered from worst to best):

1. No ANC
2. ANC in later pregnancy only
3. ANC in 1st trimester only
4. ANC in 1st trimester and later pregnancy

.. note::

  These are the same four categories listed above as A-D, but in reverse order, i.e., 1 = D, 2 = C, 3 = B, 4 = A. The output of this module that gets used 
  by the facility choice module will be a single variable called "ANC attendance," which has one of the four possible values A, B, C, or D as defined above, 
  and these need to be ordered D < C < B < A when sampling the variable using the correlated propensity for the facility choice model.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we should add this variable to the module outputs table!
